## Title

    ECIP: 1021
    Title: Token standard
    Author: Dexaran, <dexaran820@gmail.com>
    Status: Draft
    Type: ERC
    Created: 7-03.2017
    Resolution: https://github.com/Dexaran/ERC23-tokens
    
    EIP #223 on Ethereum project: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/223
    
## Abstract

The following describes standard functions a token contract and contract working with specified token can implement to prevent accidentally sends of tokens to contracts and make token transactions behave like ether transactions.

## Motivation

Problems of ERC20 that ERC223 will solve: 
1. Impossibility of handling incoming transactions in receiver contract.
2. Tokens could be sent to contract that is not designed to work with tokens without handling and potentially could be lost. At least $72000 are lost at the moment. This problem is described [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/60ql37/attention_be_careful_using_ethereum_tokens/).
3. Token-transactions should match Ethereum ideology of uniformity. When a user needs to transfer his funds, he must always perform `transfer`. Doesn't matter is user depositing in contract or sending to an externally owned account.

Those will allow contracts to handle incoming token transactions and prevent accidentally sent tokens from being accepted by contracts.
For example decentralized exchange will no more need to force users to call `approve` at token contract then call `deposit` that is calling `transferFrom` taking allowed tokens. Token transaction will automatically be handled inside the exchange contract.

The most important here is a call of `tokenFallback` when performing a transaction to a contract.

## Specification

Token
Contracts that work with tokens

## Methods

NOTE: An important point is that contract developers must implement `tokenFallback` if they want their contracts to work with the specified tokens.

If the receiver does not implement the `tokenFallback` function, consider the contract is not designed to work with tokens, then the transaction must fail and no tokens will be transferred. An analogy with an Ether transaction that is failing when trying to send Ether to a contract that did not implement `function() payable`.


#### totalSupply

```js
function totalSupply() constant returns (uint256 totalSupply)
```
Get the total token supply

#### name

```js
function name() constant returns (string _name)
```
Get the name of token

#### symbol

```js
function symbol() constant returns (string _symbol)
```
Get the symbol of token

#### decimals

```js
function decimals() constant returns (uint8 _decimals)
```
Get decimals of token

#### balanceOf

```js
function balanceOf(address _owner) constant returns (uint256 balance)
```
Get the account balance of another account with address _owner


#### transfer(address, uint, bytes)

```js
function transfer(address _to, uint _value, bytes _data) returns (bool success)
```
function that is always called when someone wants to transfer tokens.
This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenFallback (address, uint256, bytes)` in `_to`, if _to is a contract. If the `tokenFallback` function is not implemented in ` _to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. 
If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without trying to execute ` tokenFallback` in `_to`.
 `_data` can be attached to this token transaction and it will stay in blockchain forever (requires more gas). `_data` can be empty.

NOTE: The recommended way to check whether the `_to` is a contract or an address is to assemble the code of ` _to`. If there is no code in `_to`, then this is an externally owned address, otherwise it's a contract.

IMPORTANT: Token fallback function that will be called at receiver contract must be named `tokenFallback` and take parameters` address`, `uint256`,` bytes`. This function must have `0xc0ee0b8a` [signature](https://www.4byte.directory/signatures/?bytes4_signature=0xc0ee0b8a).


#### transfer(address, uint)

```js
function transfer(address _to, uint _value) returns (bool success)
```
Needed due to backwards compatibility reasons because of ERC20 transfer function doesn't have `bytes` parameter. This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenFallback(address, uint256, bytes)` in `_to`, if _to is a contract. If the `tokenFallback` function is not implemented in ` _to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. 

IMPORTANT: Token fallback function that will be called at receiver contract must be named `tokenFallback` and take parameters` address`, `uint256`,` bytes`. This function must have `0xc0ee0b8a`  [signature](https://www.4byte.directory/signatures/?bytes4_signature=0xc0ee0b8a).

## Events

#### Transfer

```js
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value, bytes _data)
```
Triggered when tokens are transferred.

## Contract to work with tokens

```js
function tokenFallback(address _from, uint _value, bytes _data)
```
A function to handle token transfers that is called from token contract when token holder is sending tokens. `_from` is a token sender, `_value` is amount of incoming tokens and `_data` is attached data similar to data in Ether transactions. Works like fallback function for Ether transactions and returns nothing.

NOTE: `msg.sender` will be a token-contract inside the `tokenFallback` function. It may be important to filter which tokens are sent (by token-contract address). The token sender (the person who initiated the token transaction) will be `_from` inside the` tokenFallback` function.

IMPORTANT: This function must be named `tokenFallback` and take parameters` address`, `uint256`,` bytes` to match the [function signature](https://www.4byte.directory/signatures/?bytes4_signature=0xc0ee0b8a) `0xc0ee0b8a`.

## Recommended implementation
This is highly recommended implementation of ERC 223 token: https://github.com/Dexaran/ERC23-tokens/tree/Recommended
