### ECIP-1045: Enable Support for Byzantium Opcodes

    ECIP: 1045/undecided
    Title: Support Byzantium Opcodes
    Status: Draft
    Type: Standard Track
    Author: Isaac Ardis <isaac@etcdevteam.com>
    Created: 2018-06-18

### Abstract

Add support for EVM opcodes introduced in the Ethereum Foundation network via the _Byzantium_ hardfork, namely `REVERT`, `RETURNDATASIZE`, `RETURNDATACOPY`, and `STATICCALL`.

This document proposes block `6,850,000` as the upcoming block height at which to implement these changes in the network, placing the expected date of protocol hardfork around early November 2018.

For more information on the opcodes and their respective EIPs, please see the __History__ section of this document.

### Motivation

To enable and maintain interoperability between Foundation and Classic Ethereum Virtual Machines ("EVM"s).

### Specification

TODO

### Rationale

TODO

### Implementation

TODO

### History

These changes were catalogued via the EIP process in the following:
- EIP-140: `REVERT` - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/206/files


> The `REVERT` instruction provides a way to stop execution and revert state changes, without consuming all provided gas and with the ability to return a reason.


- EIP-211: `RETURNDATASIZE`, `RETURNDATACOPY` - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/211/files


> A mechanism to allow returning arbitrary-length data inside the EVM has been requested for quite a while now. Existing proposals always had very intricate problems associated with charging gas. This proposal solves the same problem while at the same time, it has a very simple gas charging mechanism and requires minimal changes to the call opcodes. Its workings are very similar to the way calldata is handled already; after a call, return data is kept inside a virtual buffer from which the caller can copy it (or parts thereof) into memory. At the next call, the buffer is overwritten. This mechanism is 100% backwards compatible.


- EIP-214: `STATICCALL` - https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/214/files


> To increase smart contract security, this proposal adds a new opcode that can be used to call another contract (or itself) while disallowing any modifications to the state during the call (and its subcalls, if present).



